Action on homotopies of functions (#973)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/foundation/universal-property-contractible-types.lagda.md

# Universal property of contractible types

```agda
module foundation.universal-property-contractible-types where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.contractible-maps
open import foundation-core.contractible-types
open import foundation-core.equivalences
open import foundation-core.function-extensionality
open import foundation-core.function-types
open import foundation-core.identity-types
open import foundation-core.singleton-induction
```

</details>

## Idea

The

> {{#concept "dependent universal property of [contractible types](foundation-core.contractible-types.md)" Agda=dependent-universal-property-contr}}

Reviewer: I don't think we should have links inside a concept name. It is probably fine if we link to contractible type in the sentence where we say that a type satisfies the universal property of contractible types if and only if it is contractible.

Reviewer: Perhaps @VojtechStep has more knowledge on this. Are links in concept identifiers ok?

Reviewer: Ok, thank you Vojtech! That's awesome.

Then we can discuss separately whether it is a good idea to put links in the defined terms. Personally I find this practice a somewhat unaesthetic and I don't use it.

states that, given a point `a : A`, the evaluating map

```text
  ev-point a P : ((x : A) → P x) → P a
```

is an [equivalence](foundation-core.equivalences.md) for every type family
`P : A → 𝒰`.

> That `ev-point` is a [section](foundation-core.sections.md) corresponds to that
> contractible types satisfy
> [singleton induction](foundation-core.singleton-induction.md), while the
> [retraction](foundation-core.retractions.md) corresponds to uniqueness of this
> induction principle.

Reviewer: This paragraph is written in a confusing manner, because it seems to highlight a contrast:

"That `f` is a section ..., while the retraction"

The first part of the sentence is also not entirely correct, because actually singleton induction corresponds to `ev-point` _having_ a section, not _being_ a section. Note also that the sentence "f is a section" leaves implicit what `f` is a section of. Sometimes this is clear from the context, but in this paragraph it is definitely not clear what `ev-point` is conditioned to be section of. It would be clearer to be explicit and say that "f is a section of g".

````suggestion
The condition that `ev-point` has a [section](foundation-core.sections.md)

```text
  P a → ((x : A) → P x)
```

is another way of phrasing that the type satisfies
[singleton induction](foundation-core.singleton-induction.md). Furthermore, the condition that `ev-point` has a [retraction](foundation-core.retractions.md) asserts that all dependent functions `(x : A) → P x` are fully determined by their value at `a`.
````

Author: Thanks, Egbert!
